# A Case Study on Intuit Mint


Intuit Mint was originally known as Mint.com and was founded in 2006 by Aaron Patzer, a well established engineer and internet enterpreneur. Aaron started Mint after his frustration with the difficulties in using Intuit's Quiken product grew to the point where he could no longer use the application. Quiken at the time was the core product offered by Intuit as a personal financial management software. In 2006 Aaron met with Rob Hayes and Josh Kopelman who were the original funders of Mint. A year later Aaron launched Mint.com at TechCruch40, which won the fist prize of fifty thousand dollars. Mint was then able to raise over thirty-one million dollars through venture capital funding from DAG Ventures, Shasta Ventures and First Round Capital and also through angel investors. Later in 2009 TechCrunch estimated Mint.com to be worth about a hundred and forty million dollars. On September 14 2009, Intuit made an official statement about the aquisition of Mint for a hundred and seventy million dollars, with the entire process being completed on November 2nd, 2009.

Mint was started with one main goal which was to provide a complete view of a person's financial life. A central hub to view your bank activities, credit card reports,loan balances, bills and investments. They sort to provide a personalized view to help their uses better manage their finances and manage them with ease. Mint provides services to clients in the United States of America as well as Canada. Majority of the finance products and applications catered for only one of these finance sectors which resulted in users having multiple applications on either their computers or mobile devices. This was a major challenge which Mint sort to solve which has led to the rapid growth of its customer base which currently sits around twenty million users. What also differentiates Mint from its competitors is the fact that the platform is completely free. Offering users easy sign up steps with clear and concise instructions. Also with the application being web-based and mobile, users have the ability to use the platform either from their computers or from the comfort of their mobile devices. This grants users the ability to use the platform anywhere there is internet connectivity. Mint uses CloudFront, Bootstrap, PHP and NGINX for their application and data management. They use Mixpanel and ClickTale for their utility services. For their Devops, mint uses New Relic, Vanish, Salt and Alertbot while using Jira, Drupal and Get Satisfaction as their business tools.

Mint is in the personal finance and investment portfolio management space. With personal investment being at the finger tips of consumers, there has been a surge in the number youth being more interested in investments than it was over ten years ago. Mint has eliminated the traditional middle man who a consumer would typically have to sit down with if the wanted to venture into investing. Digital banking has also completely taken over, with some banks operating solely as digital entity. Majority of consumers today would rather check and conduct all the financial transactions from their mobile phones than have to physically travel to a bank. Peer to Peer Lending is also another major innovation which has grew in popularity in the recent years. Platforms offering such services have now made it possible for individuals to borrow from one another with ease rather than going through the traditional bank route. Mint however has competition such us Quiken, Clarity money, Personal Capital, GoodBudget, to name a few. 

Mint has made expenses tracking very easy for consumers. In today's world where the majority of transactions are conducted digitally, it very easy for consumers to lose track of their day to day transactions as well how much is being spent on a daily and weekly basis. With Mint, consumers are one click awar from a well organised and simplified record of all their transactions. Budget has also been made easy and simple with Mint. It is easy for consumers to set weekly or monthly budgets and the application will simple keep track of all your transactions and alert you if you go over your specified budget. One of the core metrics that companies in the personal finance space use to measure performance is Active Users or Engagement metrics. This helps companies to measure the amount of traffic their platform attracts and in turn enable them to get a picture of whether the platform is satisfying the customers or not. Another core metric is the security metric. This helps companies in measurin how many data breaches have occurred over a specific period of time. This is a important metric because as users log on to platforms, they sign in with their personal sensitive information and so ensuring that such information is not accessed illegally is very crucial. The company's market share also allows the company to assess their competitive position in the industry. Mint has over the years grew to become a highly preferred platform in the personal finamce space and continues to show growth when compared to alternative platforms in the personal finance space. 

As Mint is also provide investment portfolio management services, offering robo advisors would be a good addition to the platform. This would provide customers with more insights on what and when to invest which would attract even more users to their platform. It would attract both those who understand the inner workings of porfolio management and those who do not to the platform since neither of them has to do the extra work of researching and looking for what to invest in as well as when. The most difficult part of investing is knowing what to invest in as well as when to invest and so I believe that if that work gets taken care of by the robo advisor, the client would have very little to do and so for the greater portion of the customer base who have very little knowledge on investing and portfolio management, it would work out great for them. It would also mean that they wouldn't have to pay the extra fee to a portfolio manager since there is none. This additional product would require a distributed applications system, a cloud database service, an analytical system eg Google analytics, as well collaborative platform eg. Jira. 




## Resources:
[Wikipedia]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Intuit_Mint
[Investopedia]: https://www.investopedia.com/articles/personal-finance/082216/how-mintcom-makes-money-intu.asp
[Stackshare]: https://stackshare.io/mint/mint
[Crunchbase]: https://www.crunchbase.com/organization/haveamint
[Software Testing Help]: https://www.softwaretestinghelp.com/mint-alternatives
[Fintech Magazine]: https://fintechmagazine.com/financial-services-finserv/new-fintech-trends-transforming-the-personal-finance-space